Watch time, video ranking,
and number of search queries are all examples of evaluation metrics.
All of them provide an objective way of measuring the outcome we hope to see.
While the idea of improving performance on its own is vague,
an evaluation metric makes success concrete and measurable.
For watch time, success comes from user staying on the site for longer periods of time.
For video ranking, we want to see the average ranking of selected videos go up,
and if users make more searches,
perhaps that's a way of declaring the recommendation engines effectiveness.
But each of the proposed evaluation metrics also has its possible negative side.
If we measure success by the amount of time users spend watching videos,
the recommendation engine could prefer recommending longer videos,
causing video creators to submit videos with padded lengths.
For the video ranking metric,
a misguided engine might deliberately include
less relevant videos lower in the ranking to emphasize the higher rank videos.
The number of search queries metric probably has the biggest potential downside.
While it might be that users that make
more searches have increased engagement with the site,
it might also indicate that the engine is having
a hard time serving videos that users really want.
If users leave the site due to this,
then this could have a detrimental long-term effect.
This points to why it's important to consider
the study goals separately from the evaluation metrics.
First, we want to make sure that our metrics are aligned with the goals that we've set.
Observing a change in the metric isn't the main point of a study;
it's the implications of that change with regards to the study goals that really matters.
Second, considering the goal on its own can provide a central purpose to your study.
If you don't have a good reason for running an experiment,
then it might end up being a waste of time and resources.